[ci skip] Update Documentation - Pyiron release chapter (#609)
pyiron/pyiron_base: CONTRIBUTING.rst

    :target: https://ci.appveyor.com/project/pyiron-runner/pyiron/branch/master
    :alt: Build status

Pyiron release distribution

> ---------------

Reviewer: To play well with the rst syntax, a heading needs as many '-' as the title.
```suggestion
Pyiron release distribution
-----------------------------
```

.. image:: https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/pyiron/badges/downloads.svg
    :target: https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/pyiron/
    :alt: Downloads

Pyiron is released through `conda-forge`_ and  `pip`_. 
Both packages are created automatically and maintained with every new release of pyiron_base. In order to use these distributions simply use the following command for conda::

   conda install -c conda-forge pyiron_base

In order to use the pip distribution use::

   pip install pyiron-base

> Just like each other commit to the master branch the tagged releases are pushed to pypi.org (https://pypi.org/project/pyiron-base/#history) and anaconda.org (https://anaconda.org/pyiron/pyiron_base)::

Reviewer: I just checked again and we do not push any pyiron package to the pyiron channel of anaconda any more. Thus, I would drop the anaconda part here entirely.

> The major difference for pypi (pip) is that tagged releases are the default for pip while installing pre-release versions using pip requires the `--pre` flag::

Reviewer: Here, I would also just 
```suggestion
The major difference for pypi (pip) is that installing pre-release versions is possible using the `--pre` flag::
```

   pip install --pre pyiron

Those pre-release versions are named `<version_number>.post0.dev<release number>` ::

   0.2.0.post0.dev1

On the other hand the tagged releases are available through conda-forge (https://github.com/conda-forge/pyiron-feedstock), as soon as the corresponding packages are merged::

>    conda install -c conda-forge pyiron

Reviewer: I would drop this entirely - just duplication of information from above...

For pip both the pre-releases as well as the official releases are available. For conda only the official releases are available.

Building process for a release

> ---------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Building process for a release
---------------------------------
```

1. Create a Git tag to mark the release

  This step is done manually and important to trigger all the following steps. Tag can be created under https://github.com/pyiron/pyiron_base/tags. 
  The following steps are automated and will be performed once a tag is created. 
  In order to keep the tags consistent please follow the `Git-Tag-Guide`_.

>   The tag format consists of a tag_prefix (<package name>-) and the release version, for example::

Reviewer: From now on all the text in the sections is shown as quote if you view the file. I suppose the whitespace in the beginning of the lines is triggering this.
```suggestion
This step is done manually and important to trigger all the following steps. Tag can be created under https://github.com/pyiron/pyiron_base/tags. 
The following steps are automated and will be performed once a tag is created. 
In order to keep the tags consistent please follow the `Git-Tag-Guide`_.
The tag format consists of a tag_prefix (<package name>-) and the release version, for example::
```

  The configuration of the release is included in the setup.ctg file (https://github.com/pyiron/pyiron_base/blob/master/setup.cfg).
  This Workflow first installs all dependencies, then converts these dependencies and builds the package. After that the package is published to `pip`_.

3. Automatically create conda-forge package

  This release than is recognized by a conda-forge bot (https://github.com/conda-forge/pyiron_base-feedstock/pull/91), which triggers a new pull request for the conda-forge package and merges automatically if all tests pass.
  These tests are defined as `GitHub-Action-Workflows`_ and are triggered for every new pull request. More information can be found in the next chapter.

4. Docker images

  The docker images are maintained manually and therefore not updated with every release. The docker images are build using hte conda packages and can be found in different variants under https://github.com/pyiron/docker-stacks

5. Graphical installer

  The graphical installer is also maintained manually and not updated as frequently and can be found at https://github.com/pyiron/pyiron-installer.

GitHub Workflows
-----------------------------

> The `GitHub-Action-Workflows`_ are triggered, whenever a pull request is created:

Reviewer: Most of them run only for PRs to master or on push to master.

* contrib-compat.yml: https://github.com/pyiron/pyiron_base/blob/master/.github/workflows/contrib-compat.yml
* coverage.yml: https://github.com/pyiron/pyiron_base/blob/master/.github/workflows/coverage.yml
* deploy.yml: https://github.com/pyiron/pyiron_base/blob/master/.github/workflows/deploy.yml
* docs.yml: https://github.com/pyiron/pyiron_base/blob/master/.github/workflows/docs.yml
* notebooks.yml: https://github.com/pyiron/pyiron_base/blob/master/.github/workflows/notebooks.yml
* pypicheck.yml: https://github.com/pyiron/pyiron_base/blob/master/.github/workflows/pypicheck.yml
* unittests.yml: https://github.com/pyiron/pyiron_base/blob/master/.github/workflows/unittests.yml

**UpdateDependabotPR**

This workflow is used to update the dependencies of the repository. 
Therefore, it retrieves the head of the branch and runs the ./.ci_support/update_environment.py script. 
The script basically checks the title of the PR and bumps the version number from a package to a new version number.
After that, the version is written into the environment.yml file located at ./.ci_support/environment.yml.

> If this is done successfully, the workflow saves the changes and pushes back to the branch of the PR.

Reviewer: Actually, we update our dependencies using https://github.com/dependabot with config file 
https://github.com/pyiron/pyiron_base/blob/master/.github/dependabot.yml
However, this dependabot only updates the setup.py. Therefore, this workflow which applies the same changes to our `environment.yml` file used by conda. This workflow is skipped if the author is not dependabot.

Author: I don't really understand. Isn't what I described, what the workflow does? Should I only change the "repository" to "setup.py" like I did?

> **atomistic-compat.yml**

Reviewer: This workflow is only triggered if the `integration` label is set (on PR) or on push to master, i.e. merge with master.

This workflow is used to check the compatibility with the pyiron_atomistics. 
First, the workflow installs PyYAML and clones pyiron_atomistics. 
After that, the dependencies from pyiron_atomistics/.ci_support/environment.yml are copied into the pyiron_atomistics/environment.yml. 
Then, the script condamerge.py (./ci_support/condamerge.py) is triggered, which merges the dependencies from pyiron_base/.ci_support/environment.yml into the pyiron_atomistics/environmnet.yml.
After the setup is done, the script pyironconfig.py runs iand creates the pyiron configuration.
Following, both for pyiron_atomisstics and pyiron_base a dependency installation is run.
The last step is running the unittests inside pyiron_atomistics.

**backwards.yml**

This workflow is used to check backwards compatibility. 
Therefore, the current branch is retrieved, the environment is setup and configured. 
After that, the script ./ci_support/test_backwards.sh is triggered. 
This script runs different tests vor different versions of pyiron_base.

**benchmarks.yml**

> This workflow is used to run unittests on the current branch. 

Reviewer: This runs benchmark tests using the unittest framework. They are separated from the normal unit tests since they might 'randomly' break if e.g. the CI backend is different or has inconsistent computational power.

First, the head of the branch is cloned and a conda environment is created. 
After that, the pyiron configuration is setup and dependencies are installed. 
Following, the unittests are triggered and run.

**black.yml**

> This workflow is used to check the differences and find conflict markers or whitespace errors.

Reviewer: This is pretty new and not yet documented at all, however, we stared to format our code using the black style https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/. This workflow checks if the new code is consistent to the black standard.

First, the workflow installs PyYAML and clones pyiron_contrib. 
After that, the dependencies from pyiron_contrib/.ci_support/environment.yml are copied into the pyiron_contrib/environment.yml. 
Then, the script condamerge.py (./ci_support/condamerge.py) is triggered, which merges the dependencies from pyiron_base/.ci_support/environment.yml into the pyiron_contrib/environmnet.yml.
After the setup is done, the script pyironconfig.py runs iand creates the pyiron configuration.
Following, both for pyiron_atomisstics and pyiron_base a dependency installation is run.
The last step is running the unittests inside pyiron_contrib.

**coverage.yml**

This workflow is used to get the Codacy coverage. 
First, the workflow sets up the conda environment and runs the coverage tests.
After that, the results are written into the coverage.xml.

**deploy.yml**

This workflow is used to upload and deploy a new release to PyPi. 
First, the install dependencies in order to create the PyPi distribution.
After that, the dependencies are converted and the PyPi package is build according to the setup.py
This release is then uploaded to PyPi, but only if it is tagged correctly.

> **docs.yml*

Reviewer: Tests if the documentation (which we handle by [readthedocs](https://pyiron-base.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)) can be build. Actually, the last build of the docs seems to be pretty old.

In order to use the pip distribution use::

   pip install pyiron-base

Just like each other commit to the master branch the tagged releases are pushed to pypi.org (https://pypi.org/project/pyiron-base/#history)::

The major difference for pypi (pip) is that installing pre-release versions is possible using the `--pre` flag::

   pip install --pre pyiron

Those pre-release versions are named `<version_number>.post0.dev<release number>` ::

   0.2.0.post0.dev1

For pip both the pre-releases as well as the official releases are available. For conda only the official releases are available.

Building process for a release
---------------------------------

1. Create a Git tag to mark the release

This step is done manually and important to trigger all the following steps. Tag can be created under https://github.com/pyiron/pyiron_base/tags. 
The following steps are automated and will be performed once a tag is created. 
In order to keep the tags consistent please follow the `Git-Tag-Guide`_.
The tag format consists of a tag_prefix (<package name>-) and the release version, for example::

     pyiron-0.2.0

2. Automatically create PyPi package

>   After the tag is created, a the `Deploy-Workflow`_ is triggered, which creates the PyPi Package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  After the tag is created, the `Deploy-Workflow`_ is triggered, which creates the PyPi Package.
```

  The configuration of the release is included in the setup.ctg file (https://github.com/pyiron/pyiron_base/blob/master/setup.cfg).

>   This Workflow first installs all dependencies, then converts these dependencies and builds the package. After that the package is published to `pip`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This Workflow first installs all dependencies, then allows for future versions of the dependencies and builds the package. After that the package is published to `pip`_.
```

* backwards.yml: https://github.com/pyiron/pyiron_base/blob/master/.github/workflows/backwards.yml
* benchmarks.yml: https://github.com/pyiron/pyiron_base/blob/master/.github/workflows/benchmarks.yml
* black.yml: https://github.com/pyiron/pyiron_base/blob/master/.github/workflows/black.yml
* codeql-analysis.yml: https://github.com/pyiron/pyiron_base/blob/master/.github/workflows/codeql-analysis.yml
* contrib-compat.yml: https://github.com/pyiron/pyiron_base/blob/master/.github/workflows/contrib-compat.yml
* coverage.yml: https://github.com/pyiron/pyiron_base/blob/master/.github/workflows/coverage.yml
* deploy.yml: https://github.com/pyiron/pyiron_base/blob/master/.github/workflows/deploy.yml
* docs.yml: https://github.com/pyiron/pyiron_base/blob/master/.github/workflows/docs.yml
* notebooks.yml: https://github.com/pyiron/pyiron_base/blob/master/.github/workflows/notebooks.yml
* pypicheck.yml: https://github.com/pyiron/pyiron_base/blob/master/.github/workflows/pypicheck.yml
* unittests.yml: https://github.com/pyiron/pyiron_base/blob/master/.github/workflows/unittests.yml

**UpdateDependabotPR**

> This workflow is used to update the dependencies of the setup.py.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This workflow is used to keep the dependencies of the setup.py and of the environment.yml synchronized.
```

> Therefore, it retrieves the head of the branch and runs the ./.ci_support/update_environment.py script. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, it retrieves the head of the branch and runs the ./.ci_support/update_environment.py script to apply the automated changes to the setup.py (by [dependabot](https://github.com/dependabot)) also to the environment.yml.
```

The script basically checks the title of the PR and bumps the version number from a package to a new version number.
After that, the version is written into the environment.yml file located at ./.ci_support/environment.yml.
If this is done successfully, the workflow saves the changes and pushes back to the branch of the PR.

**atomistic-compat.yml**

This workflow is used to check the compatibility with the pyiron_atomistics. 

> It is only triggered if the integration label is set (eg. merge with master).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is only triggered if the integration label is set (and on merge with master).
```

First, the workflow installs PyYAML and clones pyiron_atomistics. 
After that, the dependencies from pyiron_atomistics/.ci_support/environment.yml are copied into the pyiron_atomistics/environment.yml. 
Then, the script condamerge.py (./ci_support/condamerge.py) is triggered, which merges the dependencies from pyiron_base/.ci_support/environment.yml into the pyiron_atomistics/environmnet.yml.

> After the setup is done, the script pyironconfig.py runs iand creates the pyiron configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the setup is done, the script pyironconfig.py runs and creates the pyiron configuration.
```

> Following, both for pyiron_atomisstics and pyiron_base a dependency installation is run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following, pyiron_atomisstics and pyiron_base are both installed without changing the environment (no dependency updates).
```

Following, the benchmarktests are triggered and run.

**black.yml**

This workflow is used to check the differences and find conflict markers or whitespace errors.
It checks if the code is using the `Black style`_ standards.

**codeql-analysis.yml**

This workflow is used to find vulnerablities inside the codebase with CodeQL.
First, the head of the branch is retvieved and CodeQL is initialized.
After that, the CodeQL analysis is performed and the results are returned.

**contrib-compat.yml**

This workflow is used to check the compatibility with the pyiron_contrib. 
First, the workflow installs PyYAML and clones pyiron_contrib. 
After that, the dependencies from pyiron_contrib/.ci_support/environment.yml are copied into the pyiron_contrib/environment.yml. 
Then, the script condamerge.py (./ci_support/condamerge.py) is triggered, which merges the dependencies from pyiron_base/.ci_support/environment.yml into the pyiron_contrib/environmnet.yml.
After the setup is done, the script pyironconfig.py runs iand creates the pyiron configuration.
Following, both for pyiron_atomisstics and pyiron_base a dependency installation is run.

> The last step is running the unittests inside pyiron_contrib.

Reviewer: Same as above

> Following, pyiron_atomisstics and pyiron_base are both installed without changing the environment (no dependency updates).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following, pyiron_contrib and pyiron_base are both installed without changing the environment (no dependency updates).
```

**coverage.yml**

This workflow is used to get the Codacy coverage. 
First, the workflow sets up the conda environment and runs the coverage tests.
After that, the results are written into the coverage.xml.

**deploy.yml**

This workflow is used to upload and deploy a new release to PyPi. 
First, the install dependencies in order to create the PyPi distribution.

> After that, the dependencies are converted and the PyPi package is build according to the setup.py

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After that, the version restriction of the dependencies are lifted to allow for future versions and the PyPi package is build according to the setup.py
```

This release is then uploaded to PyPi, but only if it is tagged correctly.

**docs.yml*

This workflow is used to test, if the documentation can build.
First, the environment is setup and a conda environment is created based on ./.ci_support/environment-docs.yml.
After that, the documentation folder is created and the documentation is build with sphinx.

**notebooks.yml**

> This workflow is used to test, if the code is compatible with jupiter notebooks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This workflow is used to test, if the code is compatible with jupyter notebooks found in in the [notebooks folder](https://github.com/pyiron/pyiron_base/tree/master/notebooks).
```

First, the environment is setup and a conda environment is created based on ./.ci_support/environment-notebooks.yml.
After that, the script ./.ci_support/build_notebooks.sh is executed, which tests if the notebooks can be executed.

**pypicheck.yml**

This workflow is used to test, if the installation of the pypi package works.
First, the environment is setup and the installation is run.

> After that, pip check is run, to verify if the installed packages have compatible dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After that, pip check is run, to verify if the packages installed based on the environment.yml have compatible dependencies.
```

    :alt: Build status

Pyiron release distribution
---------------

.. image:: https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/pyiron/badges/downloads.svg
    :target: https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/pyiron/
    :alt: Downloads

Pyiron is released through `conda-forge`_ and  `pip`_. 
Both packages are created automatically and maintained with every new release of pyiron_base. In order to use these distributions simply use the following command for conda::

   conda install -c conda-forge pyiron_base

In order to use the pip distribution use::

   pip install pyiron-base

Just like each other commit to the master branch the tagged releases are pushed to pypi.org (https://pypi.org/project/pyiron-base/#history) and anaconda.org (https://anaconda.org/pyiron/pyiron_base)::

The major difference for pypi (pip) is that tagged releases are the default for pip while installing prerelease versions using pip requires the `--pre` flag::

   pip install --pre pyiron

Those pre-release versions are named `<version_number>.post0.dev<release number>` ::

   0.2.0.post0.dev1

For anaconda the prereleases are pushed to the pyiron channel and can be installed using:

> conda install -c pyiron pyiron

Reviewer: This is actually not the case. Pre-releases are not available via conda. I will have a full review later, but so far everything else looks good! Thanks!

Author: Ok, then I will just delete this line
